journal.md, before:

## CART351 - Journal
_27/09_

### 27/09 - Assignment 01

  My goal for this first assignment was to remix the piece My Boyfriend Came Back From The War, by Olia Lialina, published in 1994. Her original piece is about PTSD, and captures a very anxious stream of thoughts displayed onto numerous frames.

  While keeping the subject matter my own and focusing on my personal experience, I aimed to keep the same style: short, uncontextualized fragments of thoughts, cryptic pictures that fade into the background and, most importantly, parallel branches of inner dialogue.

  Remaking the piece turned out to be a bigger challenge that I thought since most of the functions she uses for the piece are now deprecated in HTML5. I especially had to come up with new ways to use subdividing windows, which led me to compromises: it is no longer possible to resize windows like in the original scene, but on the bright side, the "unresizable" frame progression enabled a new idea: a deconstructed image will slowly show up as the experience comes to an end.

### 27/09 - Jon Rafman

Dream Journal is the new exposition made by Jon Rafman, a Canadian multimedia artist from Montreal. Jon Rafman is known for bringing forward mysteries from the deep web. Dream Journal gives us an image of the internet that goes past the memes and other kitch social media aesthetics. It rather shows us the violent, disturbing, erotic, perverse and sometimes beautiful parts of it.

The piece is an hour-long video with an "impossibly long" story, accompanied by a track by Oneohtrix Point Never. The aesthetic is ambiguous, and esoteric. It goes in every direction and follows no apparent logic. However, the objects and actions are all very clear and understandable, and use what Rafman calls "the language of the internet".

The artist describes it as such: "it uses very primitive animation software, but with it, you can respond very quickly, like the way that the internet responds to culture and politics.".

His work touches the fast-paced and saturated world we live in: "in an age of ADD, there's a sense in which immersion speaks on a critical level to what is required to completely emcompass a viewer.
With BR, you're blindfolded. With IMAX theaters, you might have vibrating chairs... I'm reflecting a time in which one almost arrest the viewer in a violent way.".

### 27/09 - 4chan

http://boards.4chan.org

"4chan is the armpit of the internet."

"Consider a community that is founded on the premise of anonymity. That anonymity is of supreme importance and defines that community. That’s 4chan. The saying “it’s a trap”, began as a joke, because many of the anonymous users would post misleading titles that linked to severely taboo sexual images or something even worse."

"Without accountability, a community like 4chan is considered a cesspool for some of the vilest content on the internet. You may recall that several of the civilian shooters in recent years were linked to posts on 4chan that outlined their plans and even had attempts at humor."

"[...]4Chan isn’t one homogenous entity. Most of the trouble comes from its /b/ (random) and /pol/ (politically incorrect) boards, but even within these there are dissenting voices and differing opinions. On one thread someone can submerge a toad in vodka before cruelly tying it to balloons and launching it to the skies, while on another users can uncover the personal information of a man abusing cats and report him to the authorities."

### 27/09 Alone together

"We don’t seem to care what these artificial intelligences “know” or “understand” of the human moments we might “share” with them. At the robotic moment, the performance of connection seems connection enough. We are poised to attach to the inanimate without prejudice. The phrase “technological promiscuity” comes to mind."

"We insert robots into every narrative of human frailty. People make too many demands; robot demands would be of a more manageable sort. People disappoint; ro- bots will not. When people talk about relationships with robots, they talk about cheating hus- bands, wives who fake orgasms, and children who take drugs."

"These days, teenagers have sexual adulthood thrust upon them before they are ready to deal with the complexities of rela- tionships. They are drawn to the comfort of connection without the demands of intimacy. This may lead them to a hookup—sex without commitment or even caring."

"They say they used to talk to each other as they waited to give presentations or took taxis to the airport; now they spend that time doing e-mail. Some tell me they are making better use of their “downtime,” but they argue without conviction. The time that they once used to talk as they waited for appointments or drove to the airport was never downtime. It was the time when far-flung global teams solidified relationships and refined ideas."

### 11/10 - Assignment 02
Messenger in a Bottle

* subscribe to the new platform on Messenger. Only subscribed participants can send/receive random messages.
* write down a message as you would in messenger. Once you send it, it will be randomly sent
* the recipient cannot be in your friendlist
* you can only send one message at a time. Once it has been seen, you can send another
* you can also receive one message at a time. Once you see it, you are eligible for another one

For this assignment, I wanted to do something alongside the concept of the message in a bottle. A one-direction communication with no idea of the recipient. We talked a lot about posting and sharing to "the feed" being this intimate safespace in which we could share our intimacy from a safe (and curated) distance.

My piece could be described as a mix of messenger, chatroulette and 4chan. You can send a message the same way you do in messenger, although you can't see who will read it. You will only be notified that _someone_ has read it. On the other hand, you will be assigned messages.

While messenger (and most other direct messaging apps), you always have a good idea of who you're talking to, which is a good source of self-consciousness. If we add anonymity in the mix, then the things we'll want to share will change. Also, knowing that this is a one-way conversation will give nothing to lose for the sender, leading to raw honesty and, most probably, disgusting pulsions.

Being on the receiving end is a big gamble as well. People do know they're gonna stumble upon some sort of phallus in chatroulette; they know they'll have to dig through the shitposting on a 4chan board. But they still use there platforms. Some people, myself included, just love the thrill of curiosity, and digging through completely uncensored parts of people.

### 11/10 - Drawing Dynamic Visualizations (Bret Victor)

http://worrydream.com/#!/DrawingDynamicVisualizationsTalk

"Throughout the history of science, diagrams and graphs have been essential thinking tools. In the past, such visualizations were drawn with pen on paper, and could embrace the directness, freedom, and expressiveness of hand drawing. Most modern visualizations are programmed instead, where a single description can dynamically generate a unique picture for any dataset."

"Much of the effort in designing this tool went into designing a set of drawing actions ("primitive operations") that allows the artist to precisely and unambiguously express intent. The editor is intentionally not magical, and does not "guess" what the artist is intending to do."

"Is this "programming"? Sure. The artist is certainly creating a computer program. (I would deny that it's "coding", however, since the artist is not directly manipulating a symbolic representation, and what else could the word "code" mean? (I've heard people claim that it must be "coding" because code is being "created under the hood". This seems equivalent to the claim that drawing in Illustrator is "coding in PostScript". (It's not.)))"

"More to the point, the artist is indeed required to think procedurally. (But note that the act of drawing, like a procedure, is a step-by-step process.). The artist must also think abstractly (when designing loops and sub-pictures and such). Learning abstraction is no doubt a challenge for anyone, although the tool is designed to help make that challenge approachable. (See Learnable Programming for a dissection of many of the techniques used.)"


### 25/10 - Assignment 03
Biographical statistics

My website was always in need of a biography, but I never dared to make one. Maybe I'm too self-conscious, or I'm scared of sounding off too pretentious, so I have a very low level of information available about me.

This is the premiss of my idea, I decided to make charts that would say what I could not write. Doing graphs gave me a very interesting distance. They became a creative safe space in which I could tell all the good and horrible shit that happened to me in the last 10 years.

My bio is unfolding through lines. Their movements are the events, with only the legends to give limited context. Their juxtaposition make them each nuance one another. The occlusion of the y-axis numbers give an abstract yet evocative sence to the date; you can't count it, but the mouvement is enough to the narrative. The repetition of the 10-year timeline through the five chart also make the graphs talk to each other.

### 25/10 - Locative game

Zombie Run https://zombiesrungame.com

Zombies, Run! is a 2012 mobile exergame co-developed and published by Six to Start and Naomi Alderman for iOS and Android platforms.

Players act as the character through a series of missions, during which they run and listen to various audio narrations.

"This mechanic threw me for a loop on my first run. For a bit of context, I am not a runner. I enjoy a good walk pretty regularly, but running is not my thing. Thankfully, this app follows your pace. If you want to run, run. If you want to walk, walk. Whatever suits your physical needs. The very first cut scene ends with a radio operator telling you, rather emphatically, to "RUN!" Being a good little survivor, I obeyed, upping my pace from a steady walk to more of a jog. After about a minute, I hear a warning that there are zombies 100 meters away. I wasn't sure if I should run faster, slow down, change direction, or how to react. The user is given no indication at this point what to do. Since I'd already been told by my radio operator to run, I slowed down, assuming the warning meant there were zombies ahead. The zombies caught me."

### 25 / 10 - Assignment 04

Undercovers is a game about hunting and being hunted.

_MECHANICS_
When you opt-in to the game, you only need to choose a pseudonym. You then get your first contract : "kill" someone without getting caught.

The only information you have is that other person's pseudonym and the direction of that person.

When the target and prey get close enough (i.e. on the same floor), the two phone will start vibrating. Like a sonar, the vibration will get more insistant as they get closer.

**HUNTER SCREEN**


If you are hunting your target, your screen shows you an arrow poiting you to your target, alongside the distance between you two.

As you get closer, the arrow will fade out, leaving you only with the distance between you and your target.

**HUNTED SCREEN**
![asdf](img/defenderscreen.png)

While you are hunting, you phone might vibrate to tell you that your killer is in the vicinity. Your only way of defending yourself is to use your camera to scan the surroundings. If the killer's phone get in the screen, a white sonar beep will come out if it, revealing the identity of the killer.

_DYNAMIC_
In practice, the goal of the game is to make the players act like undercover agents.

Because the two phones vibrate when they get close, the hunter will

The game really unfolds in public spaces. Because you can attack your target alone, you need to blend in the crowd.

On the flip side, putting yourself in the crowd also means you're putting yourself in danger, because you are also someone else's target.

_AESTHETICS_


_OTHER RULES_
* you can only play this game inside the EV building
*
















***

Commit message:

ADDED THE PROCESS SECTION
added a few things documenting my process during the first three
assignments.

journal.md, after:

## CART351 - Journal
_27/09_

### 27/09 - Assignment 01

  My goal for this first assignment was to remix the piece My Boyfriend Came Back From The War, by Olia Lialina, published in 1994. Her original piece is about PTSD, and captures a very anxious stream of thoughts displayed onto numerous frames.

  While keeping the subject matter my own and focusing on my personal experience, I aimed to keep the same style: short, uncontextualized fragments of thoughts, cryptic pictures that fade into the background and, most importantly, parallel branches of inner dialogue.

  Remaking the piece turned out to be a bigger challenge that I thought since most of the functions she uses for the piece are now deprecated in HTML5. I especially had to come up with new ways to use subdividing windows, which led me to compromises: it is no longer possible to resize windows like in the original scene, but on the bright side, the "unresizable" frame progression enabled a new idea: a deconstructed image will slowly show up as the experience comes to an end.

  **PROCESS**
  Since the main goal was to recapture the way she narrated her story, I concentrated my efforts on a build-up that would slowly reveal my version.

  As shown in the image below, I did many iterations on the interesting ways the screen could be divided. It was actually hard to make it as asymetric as possible.

  Since Olia's writing felt a like a stream of consciousness, I didn't wanted to think too much about what I would write.

  I decided to give myself only one session of writing. I sat down, and wrote everything that came through my head (you can see the result in the document "draft.md"). The day after, I simply moved stuff around and looked for ways to integrate it in the framework.

  For the image, I almost literally looked at the top of the pile. I took random stuff I took recently, modified them, and turned them into the game (see images BEFORE / AFTER)

  ![asdf](img/a01.png)


### 27/09 - Jon Rafman

Dream Journal is the new exposition made by Jon Rafman, a Canadian multimedia artist from Montreal. Jon Rafman is known for bringing forward mysteries from the deep web. Dream Journal gives us an image of the internet that goes past the memes and other kitch social media aesthetics. It rather shows us the violent, disturbing, erotic, perverse and sometimes beautiful parts of it.

The piece is an hour-long video with an "impossibly long" story, accompanied by a track by Oneohtrix Point Never. The aesthetic is ambiguous, and esoteric. It goes in every direction and follows no apparent logic. However, the objects and actions are all very clear and understandable, and use what Rafman calls "the language of the internet".

The artist describes it as such: "it uses very primitive animation software, but with it, you can respond very quickly, like the way that the internet responds to culture and politics.".

His work touches the fast-paced and saturated world we live in: "in an age of ADD, there's a sense in which immersion speaks on a critical level to what is required to completely emcompass a viewer.
With BR, you're blindfolded. With IMAX theaters, you might have vibrating chairs... I'm reflecting a time in which one almost arrest the viewer in a violent way.".

### 27/09 - 4chan

http://boards.4chan.org

"4chan is the armpit of the internet."

"Consider a community that is founded on the premise of anonymity. That anonymity is of supreme importance and defines that community. That’s 4chan. The saying “it’s a trap”, began as a joke, because many of the anonymous users would post misleading titles that linked to severely taboo sexual images or something even worse."

"Without accountability, a community like 4chan is considered a cesspool for some of the vilest content on the internet. You may recall that several of the civilian shooters in recent years were linked to posts on 4chan that outlined their plans and even had attempts at humor."

"[...]4Chan isn’t one homogenous entity. Most of the trouble comes from its /b/ (random) and /pol/ (politically incorrect) boards, but even within these there are dissenting voices and differing opinions. On one thread someone can submerge a toad in vodka before cruelly tying it to balloons and launching it to the skies, while on another users can uncover the personal information of a man abusing cats and report him to the authorities."

### 27/09 Alone together

"We don’t seem to care what these artificial intelligences “know” or “understand” of the human moments we might “share” with them. At the robotic moment, the performance of connection seems connection enough. We are poised to attach to the inanimate without prejudice. The phrase “technological promiscuity” comes to mind."

"We insert robots into every narrative of human frailty. People make too many demands; robot demands would be of a more manageable sort. People disappoint; ro- bots will not. When people talk about relationships with robots, they talk about cheating hus- bands, wives who fake orgasms, and children who take drugs."

"These days, teenagers have sexual adulthood thrust upon them before they are ready to deal with the complexities of rela- tionships. They are drawn to the comfort of connection without the demands of intimacy. This may lead them to a hookup—sex without commitment or even caring."

"They say they used to talk to each other as they waited to give presentations or took taxis to the airport; now they spend that time doing e-mail. Some tell me they are making better use of their “downtime,” but they argue without conviction. The time that they once used to talk as they waited for appointments or drove to the airport was never downtime. It was the time when far-flung global teams solidified relationships and refined ideas."

### 11/10 - Assignment 02
Messenger in a Bottle

* subscribe to the new platform on Messenger. Only subscribed participants can send/receive random messages.
* write down a message as you would in messenger. Once you send it, it will be randomly sent
* the recipient cannot be in your friendlist
* you can only send one message at a time. Once it has been seen, you can send another
* you can also receive one message at a time. Once you see it, you are eligible for another one

For this assignment, I wanted to do something alongside the concept of the message in a bottle. A one-direction communication with no idea of the recipient. We talked a lot about posting and sharing to "the feed" being this intimate safespace in which we could share our intimacy from a safe (and curated) distance.

My piece could be described as a mix of messenger, chatroulette and 4chan. You can send a message the same way you do in messenger, although you can't see who will read it. You will only be notified that _someone_ has read it. On the other hand, you will be assigned messages.

While messenger (and most other direct messaging apps), you always have a good idea of who you're talking to, which is a good source of self-consciousness. If we add anonymity in the mix, then the things we'll want to share will change. Also, knowing that this is a one-way conversation will give nothing to lose for the sender, leading to raw honesty and, most probably, disgusting pulsions.

Being on the receiving end is a big gamble as well. People do know they're gonna stumble upon some sort of phallus in chatroulette; they know they'll have to dig through the shitposting on a 4chan board. But they still use there platforms. Some people, myself included, just love the thrill of curiosity, and digging through completely uncensored parts of people.

### 11/10 - Drawing Dynamic Visualizations (Bret Victor)

http://worrydream.com/#!/DrawingDynamicVisualizationsTalk

"Throughout the history of science, diagrams and graphs have been essential thinking tools. In the past, such visualizations were drawn with pen on paper, and could embrace the directness, freedom, and expressiveness of hand drawing. Most modern visualizations are programmed instead, where a single description can dynamically generate a unique picture for any dataset."

"Much of the effort in designing this tool went into designing a set of drawing actions ("primitive operations") that allows the artist to precisely and unambiguously express intent. The editor is intentionally not magical, and does not "guess" what the artist is intending to do."

"Is this "programming"? Sure. The artist is certainly creating a computer program. (I would deny that it's "coding", however, since the artist is not directly manipulating a symbolic representation, and what else could the word "code" mean? (I've heard people claim that it must be "coding" because code is being "created under the hood". This seems equivalent to the claim that drawing in Illustrator is "coding in PostScript". (It's not.)))"

"More to the point, the artist is indeed required to think procedurally. (But note that the act of drawing, like a procedure, is a step-by-step process.). The artist must also think abstractly (when designing loops and sub-pictures and such). Learning abstraction is no doubt a challenge for anyone, although the tool is designed to help make that challenge approachable. (See Learnable Programming for a dissection of many of the techniques used.)"


### 25/10 - Assignment 03
Biographical statistics

My website was always in need of a biography, but I never dared to make one. Maybe I'm too self-conscious, or I'm scared of sounding off too pretentious, so I have a very low level of information available about me.

This is the premiss of my idea, I decided to make charts that would say what I could not write. Doing graphs gave me a very interesting distance. They became a creative safe space in which I could tell all the good and horrible shit that happened to me in the last 10 years.

My bio is unfolding through lines. Their movements are the events, with only the legends to give limited context. Their juxtaposition make them each nuance one another. The occlusion of the y-axis numbers give an abstract yet evocative sence to the date; you can't count it, but the mouvement is enough to the narrative. The repetition of the 10-year timeline through the five chart also make the graphs talk to each other.

**PROCESS**
The process was twofold in this assignment.

A good chunk of the time I devoted for this was to actually learn javascript. I had never touched the language before, so I had to learn the basics first. I have the book "Javascript & JQuery - interactive front-end web development". I did the first 150 pages.

Then, when I felt better about the language, I started sketching. in the picture below, my sketches are mostly exploring shapes, and how the curves could tell something just by looking at then (and not the numbers). I wanted abstract graphs, so the measured subjects had to be abstract as well. I noted down a lot of things that could not be measures by myself, like my stress, or being in love.

I then joinded the shapes to the values, and used a JS library to express them. The rest of the time was playing with the values so that The curves would look abstract but not too complex in their shape.

![asdf](img/a03.png)
![asdf](img/a03b.png)

### 25/10 - Locative game

Zombie Run https://zombiesrungame.com

Zombies, Run! is a 2012 mobile exergame co-developed and published by Six to Start and Naomi Alderman for iOS and Android platforms.

Players act as the character through a series of missions, during which they run and listen to various audio narrations.

"This mechanic threw me for a loop on my first run. For a bit of context, I am not a runner. I enjoy a good walk pretty regularly, but running is not my thing. Thankfully, this app follows your pace. If you want to run, run. If you want to walk, walk. Whatever suits your physical needs. The very first cut scene ends with a radio operator telling you, rather emphatically, to "RUN!" Being a good little survivor, I obeyed, upping my pace from a steady walk to more of a jog. After about a minute, I hear a warning that there are zombies 100 meters away. I wasn't sure if I should run faster, slow down, change direction, or how to react. The user is given no indication at this point what to do. Since I'd already been told by my radio operator to run, I slowed down, assuming the warning meant there were zombies ahead. The zombies caught me."

### 25 / 10 - Assignment 04

Undercovers is a game about hunting and being hunted.

_MECHANICS_
When you opt-in to the game, you only need to choose a pseudonym. You then get your first contract : "kill" someone without getting caught.

The only information you have is that other person's pseudonym and the direction of that person.

When the target and prey get close enough (i.e. on the same floor), the two phone will start vibrating. Like a sonar, the vibration will get more insistant as they get closer.

**HUNTER SCREEN**


If you are hunting your target, your screen shows you an arrow poiting you to your target, alongside the distance between you two.

As you get closer, the arrow will fade out, leaving you only with the distance between you and your target.

**HUNTED SCREEN**
![asdf](img/defenderscreen.png)

While you are hunting, you phone might vibrate to tell you that your killer is in the vicinity. Your only way of defending yourself is to use your camera to scan the surroundings. If the killer's phone get in the screen, a white sonar beep will come out if it, revealing the identity of the killer.

_DYNAMIC_
In practice, the goal of the game is to make the players act like undercover agents.

Because the two phones vibrate when they get close, the hunter will

The game really unfolds in public spaces. Because you can attack your target alone, you need to blend in the crowd.

On the flip side, putting yourself in the crowd also means you're putting yourself in danger, because you are also someone else's target.

_AESTHETICS_


_OTHER RULES_
* you can only play this game inside the EV building
*
















***
